more than 9 months headed back to Earth
right now let's bring in our former NASA
astronaut Jose Hernandez and biomedical
engineer Dr John jawish thank you so
much Dr I want to start you with you
first our team has big Curiosities over
what the medical challenges will look
like once they splash down and they were
able to get them out to medical
treatment what is all of this going to
look like we're told that they'll be
carried out on
stretchers usually that's a for sure
thing you lose a lot of muscle mass you
lose a lot of bone density also
compromises tendons and ligaments uh
especially over the extended period of
time that they've been up there so they
will not be in tiptop shape when they
get off the space vehicle they will need
to focus on rehabilitative exercise and
uh proper nutrition so there's there's
two things that are really compromising
them while they're up there is number
one your digestion doesn't work very
well when you don't have the assistance
of gravity so the gravity field of the
earth pulls food through your system and
when you're a little kid or you're
around little kids if they're on a
jungle gym after they eat and they don't
feel so well yeah it's CU they need
things pushing down uh on their on their
digestive system and then the other
thing is without gravity without the
mechanical tension on musculature and on
bone bone density starts to go down and
they lose a lot of muscle mass and the
glycogen stores that are needed to be
held within the muscular tissue
incredibly important information and to
Jose our astronaut now please do tell us
what they must be thinking and feeling
as they make their way back to
Earth well the first thing they have to
do is they have to do a uh a fluid load
uh because um being up in space they
don't need as much fluid in their body
as they do in 1G and so you have to
ingest lots of fluid whether it's
chicken consumate Gatorade or whatever
but you have to have lots of fluid and
uh as John pointed out uh you know when
I came back from space my first two
words out of my mouth was gravity sucks
because uh because because you're
adjusting to gravity and uh it's not fun
and you and these guys have been up
there for nine months they got about two
months of uh of physical therapy so they
can come back and be normal here in the
1G environment doctor I we're gonna have
to leave it there we're tight on time
because of breaking news but if you
could just sort of um tell us what life
will be like after them our team was
talking this morning about we can learn
from this there are certain you know
life extending things that we learn from
zero gravity environments final
thought so they go through a period of
degradation by not having the benefit of
the Earth's gravitational field it is
going to take them months to
rehabilitate even to be back to a state
of normaly and then they're probably
going to work hard to get to a state of
high performance as astronauts
always do yeah it's really important to
cover this aspect of it because we think
there's going to be this big celebration
but they are going to be rushed off to
get medical treatment right away we do
know that um thank you so much to both
of you appreciate those perspectives
thank you we'll see you again soon